# Mineyourtime White Paper
Why do we use currencies in the first place? To solve the double coincidence of wants, imagine there is a painter and he wants to buy eggs from a farmer but the farmer doesn’t need to paint his barn; what can be done? The painter writes on a piece of paper (let’s call it note) that he will paint 10 square meters, of whatever the holder of the note decides, in exchange for 12 eggs now. The next day the farmer goes to the hardware store looking for a new shovel, reaching the counter he says to the store owner: “look, your storefront needs to be repainted, I give you this note in exchange for the shove, you can go to the painter and he will do the job”. The owner accepts the offer; the next day he calls the painter that promptly does the job in the afternoon after seeing that the shop owner has the note written by him. Scale this example to millions of transactions with a standardized unit and you have a currency. The problem now is, what happens to the note after the painter completes the job? Common sense would say that the note is no longer valid and should be destroyed, we could say that the note served its purpose and it is no longer needed. But if we look at monetary systems during history we see that the currency has always been centrally created, always increasing the supply of new notes making promises that cannot be kept (it would be as if the painter wrote notes to paint all the houses in the country, knowing that he won’t ever do it). This grant absolute power to whoever controls the currency creation mechanism, are we sure that we want to allow a small number of people this power? do we really trust them? What if we had a way for everyone to emit their notes when in need (minimizing damage from bad actors) and ensure that when the notes complete the cycle they are destroyed, avoiding massive inflation? 

Mineyourtime solves this, offering a cryptocurrency whose supply is in the hand of all its unique users. The concept is simple, every user can set up a cryptographically secured wallet and start to exchange his products or services for other users' “crypto time” using one of the fastest blockchain technology (Hedera Hashgraph). Now if a user doesn’t have “crypto time” he can (following a quick verification process) become a “time minter” and start “minting” his time. When the user mints, a certain amount of “crypto time” gets deposited on the wallet, coincidentally the time debt of the same user increases, when the user will provide products or services for others the time he gets will first fill the debt, this is to ensure that once the “crypto time” has completed its purpose (running around until it returns to the minter that created it), it gets destroyed; similar to how the painter’s note would be destroyed. The amount of time any user can mint is only dependent on when the user became a minter, let’s say it was 24h ago, now the user can mint 24h and spend them as he likes. You may now be asking, why should a minter pay back the time? Another important point is that once a user mints, the time he can mint stops increasing as the real time passes until his time debt reaches 0 again. This is so that users are incentivized to reach again a 0 time debt, making their potential time minting counter running again.

Why time and not some random coin name? If there are a few things that most of the world agrees on, time is one of them. Everyone has the concept of minutes/hour/days and could potentially give them some value and exchange them easily with anyone else (repainting the barn will cost you 6 hours, 12 eggs will cost you 3 hours, and so on).

For the skeptics: Is this some sort of ICO scam? No, this is not fundraising and no token is on sale, the “Crypto time” token is not centrally managed or sold, the supply of it entirely dependent on the users of the wallet, if you want some “crypto time” you need to get it transferred from someone that already has it or become a minter yourself. You can use the wallet without any registration, if you want to become a minter a short video verification will be needed.

Get the “Myt Wallet” app at https://mineyourtime.com/ and start minting your time!
